Title: Day Trips in Germany
Source: https://int.bahn.de/en/trains/local-transport
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/towns-cities-culture/top-100/germany-travel-attractions.html
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/inspiring-germany/spectacular-views-germany-at-your-feet.html
Content:

Source section: int.bahn.de
Discover Germany on regional and local trains.
IRE (Interregio-Express), RE (Regional-Express), RB (Regionalbahn) and S-Bahn

What travel on board regional and S-Bahn trains offers you
- A dense network of routes
- Departures at regular intervals
- Seamless connections to local and long-distance services
- Display and announcement of next stop
- Flexible travel without travel reservations

Interregio-Express (IRE)

Regional-Express (RE)

Regionalbahn (RB)

S-Bahn

Modern train equipment

Source section: www.germany.travel
Popular tourist attractions in Germany
With its historic old towns, stunning natural landscapes, and modern architecture, Germany is a destination of extraordinary diversity. This collection of 100 popular attractions invites you to discover both well-known and lesser-known highlights.
Miniatur Wunderland Hamburg
Europa-Park, Rust
Phantasialand, Brühl
Nürburgring
Rothenburg ob der Tauber
Berlin
Deutschlandmuseum, Berlin
UNESCO World Heritage Margravial Opera House, Bayreuth
Therme Erding
Eltz Castle, Wierschem
Neuschwanstein Castle, Hohenschwangau
Lake Constance with Mainau Island and UNESCO World Heritage Site Reichenau Monastery Island
Europa-Rosarium, Sangerhausen
Hamburg
Munich
Theme park Ravensburger Spieleland
Dresden
Black Forest
Erlebnispark Tripsdrill mit Wildparadies, Cleebronn
UNESCO World Heritage Cologne Cathedral
Elbphilharmonie, Hamburg
Heidelberg
Saxon Switzerland National Park
Legoland Germany Resort, Günzburg
Berchtesgaden
Romantic Road
Ulmer Münster
Freiburg
Harz
Charming Tauber valley
Würzburg
Bamberg
Moselle
Aachen
Zugspitze
Rügen Island
Oktoberfest, Munich
Bayern-Park Freizeitparadies, Reisbach
UNESCO World Heritage Baden-Baden
Nuremberg
Frankfurt
Cologne
Garmisch-Partenkirchen
Quedlinburg
UNESCO World Heritage Berlin Museum Island
Lake Königssee, Bavaria
Cochem
Dinkelsbühl
Rhine
Trier
Nuremberg Christkindlesmarkt
UNESCO World Heritage Bergpark Wilhelmshöhe
Regensburg
UNESCO World Heritage Speicherstadt, Hamburg
Leipzig
Beilstein
Wildpark Bad Mergentheim
Stuttgart
Eifel National Park
Eibsee
Weimar
Bernkastel-Kues
Altmühltal Nature Park
UNESCO World Heritage Porta Nigra, Trier
Wernigerode
Allgäu
Bayreuth
Görlitz
Düsseldorf
UNESCO World Heritage - Schwerin Residence Ensemble
Bremen
Helgoland Island
Lindau
Wadden Sea National Park
Rüdesheim am Rhein
Koblenz
Münster
UNESCO World Heritage Wartburg Castle, Eisenach
Monschau
UNESCO Spreewald Biosphere Reserve
Usedom Island
Hohenzollern Castle, Bisingen
Bavarian Forest National Park
Linderhof Castle, Ettal
UNESCO World Heritage Sanssouci Palace, Potsdam
Chiemsee
German Alpine Road
UNESCO World Heritage Zollverein Coal Mine Industrial Complex in Essen
Kassel
Schwebebahn Wuppertal
Lake Tegernsee
Roevershagen - Karls adventure village
Saarschleife
UNESCO World Heritage Pilgrimage Church of Wies, Steingaden
Sylt Island
Heide Park Resort, Soltau
Sinsheim Technology Museum
German Fairy Tale Route
Autostadt in Wolfsburg
Hameln

Source section: www.germany.travel
Views that will be imprinted on your memory forever: to add the perfect special touch to your holiday. From mountain peaks to natural terraces and city towers: discover some of the most spectacular viewpoints in Germany.
Top of Germany
Aussichtsplattform AlpspiX vor Garmisch-Partenkirchen ©Bayerische Zugspitzbahn (fendstudios.com)
Zugspitze (Bavaria)
At 2,962 metres, the Zugspitze is the highest peak in Germany, which naturally makes it a spectacular viewpoint. A cable car runs up to the summit above Garmisch-Partenkirchen. From the panoramic windows of the striking mountain station hewn into the rock, visitors can enjoy an amazing view of around 400 alpine peaks in four countries. And for an extra thrill, you can step out onto the Alpspix viewing platform , a steel walkway suspended over the precipice. From this lofty height, you can enjoy a bird's eye perspective of curious giant mountain formations and untamed valleys – an exhilarating alpine adventure between heaven and earth. Impressively steep

Impressively steep
Bremm:The Calmont, Europe's steepest vineyard, view over the Moselle at dusk ©Getty Images (Jörg Greuel)
Calmont by the Moselle River (Rhineland-Palatinate)
It's really steep! At just short of 400 metres, the Calmont in the Moselle Valley may not be a particularly high hill, but it is extremely steep. The grapevines are its remarkable feature: they cover its slopes with gradients of up to 65 degrees, making it one of the steepest vineyards in the world. A rocky trail leads up the hillside. Anyone attempting this very demanding tour can look forward to the most scenic reward. From the summit, you can look down over the gently flowing Moselle River, which carves a perfectly shaped loop through the rocks here. Surrounded by shimmering water, on the headland you can see the ruins of Stuben Abbey, now an atmospheric backdrop for cultural events such as jazz concerts. A throne in nature

A throne in nature
Nationalpark Jasmund: The landmark of Rügen - the 'Königsstuhl' ©Nationalpark-Zentrum Königsstuhl Sassnitz (Peter Lehmann)
Königsstuhl on Rügen (Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania)
The best view is naturally reserved for the King. So it's only fitting that a rocky spur with the name Königsstuhl (King's Chair) is one of the most spectacular viewpoints in Germany. Where can you find it? In the far north-east of Germany, on the country's largest island: the Baltic Sea island of Rügen. The Königsstuhl is the highest peak in Rügen's chalk cliffs and is located in the Jasmund National Park. The coastal formation here features striking, deeply fissured and brilliantly white chalk cliffs. A long time ago, German painter Caspar David Friedrich was entranced by the view. He captured this natural scene on canvas around 200 years ago and created a painting that's now world famous. Anyone climbing the 118-metre Königsstuhl today can look forward to majestic views over the deep blue Baltic Sea and lush green beech forests. Urban summiteering

Urban summiteering
Berlin: Gasometer in Berlin Schöneberg in the evening sun ©AdobeStock (thign)
Gasometer (Berlin)
Be warned, this adventure needs a head for heights! 420 steps lead up steeply between steel struts to the top ring of the Berlin Gasometer . The former gas container in the district of Schöneberg is now an industrial monument. Visitors can take a guided tour to find out more about how it works, and – the absolute highlight – enjoy a tremendous view of the city by the Spree from a height of almost 80 metres. From this impressive height, the entire city is at your feet: the Zoological Garden, Reichstag building, Victory Column – a 360° view of Berlin! A scholarly stroll

A scholarly stroll
Heidelberg: The castle overlooks the city and the Neckar valley, sunset ©DZT (Markus Pioro)
Heidelberg Philosophers' Walk (Baden-Württemberg)
Covering a distance of some two kilometres, the Philosophers' Walk high above the venerable university city of Heidelberg offers picturesque panoramic views and may even inspire some wise insights. The view from this sunny natural balcony takes in the harmonious triad of Heidelberg old town, the gently flowing River Neckar and the surrounding mountains, including the Königsstuhl, the city's local mountain. Lots of benches along the way offer top-tier uninterrupted views and invite you to linger for a while. And, thanks to its sunny location, cypresses, gorse, lemon trees and palms thrive almost as well on the Philosophers' Walk as in Tuscany. The name of the walk is thought to be a reference to its popularity among Heidelberg students in days gone by as a place for romantic and secluded strolls. Picturesque vistas

Picturesque vistas
Saxon Switzerland: Hiking in the Elbsanstein Mountains ©DZT (Jens Wegener)
Bastei, near Rathen (Saxony)
At the Bastei and Bastei Bridge in Saxon Switzerland, you can look forward to unforgettable views with that 'wow' factor. The curious rock formations near the Czech border transport you to a fairy-tale world that might even tempt you to look out for elves and trolls. From the viewing platform on the Bastei, a magnificent natural spectacle unfolds before your eyes. This vantage point high up on the cliffs offers extensive views over the picturesque Elbe Valley and the deeply fissured Elbe Sandstone Mountains. The most beautiful view on the 77-metre-long Bastei Bridge with its seven impressive stone arches is from the "Ferdinandstein" – an unforgettable and achingly beautiful panorama. From the temple of music

From the temple of music
Hamburg: Elbphilharmonie at sunrise ©Hamburg Marketing GmbH (Cooper Copter GmbH)
Elbphilharmonie (Hamburg)
The Elbphilharmonie isn't just an impressive building in its own right, it also offers one of the most captivating views over the city of Hamburg, the "Jewel of the North". The spectacular concert hall constructed in 2016 in the HafenCity district features an inviting terrace from which visitors can enjoy bird's eye views over Hamburg, from the bustling activity of the harbour to the traditional landing stages and the city's striking church towers, including the "Michel". An 80-metre-long escalator transports you up to the platform of the "Elphi". Those lucky enough to have got hold of concert tickets for this new temple of music can enjoy the panoramic vistas from even higher up through the concave and convex shaped windows. Greetings from Hercules

Greetings from Hercules
Kassel: View from the cascades in Bergpark Wilhelmshöhe ©AdobeStock (fotobeam.de)
Bergpark Wilhelmshöhe in Kassel (Hesse)
Europe's largest hillside park is located in the documenta city of Kassel and has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 2013. This natural plateau is called Wilhelmshöhe and guarantees breathtaking views. The best vantage point is beside the copper statue of the Greek demigod Hercules. He's staring out across the city. Visitors can follow his example. From a height of 530 metres, you can enjoy a view of the densely wooded hillside park, with Wilhelmshöhe Palace and Löwenburg Castle in the distance and, on a clear day, the Harz and Rhön mountains on the horizon.

Discover more

Walk on the bottom of the sea? The Wadden Sea

Something different: eight original city tours

Magic by the river

Paths to Happiness - Holiday routes

Cities on the border: rubbing shoulders with European neighbours

Capitals of Culture: a grand entrance on the European stage
