Title: German Festivals
Source: https://www.oktoberfest.de/en/magazine/tradition/the-history-of-oktoberfest
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/christmas
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/inspiring-germany/german-carnival-hotspots.html
Content:

Source section: www.oktoberfest.de
A journey through the history of the Wiesn
It’s the world’s largest folk festival — and the most popular. Every year, Oktoberfest attracts millions of visitors. Once an Oktoberfest goer, always an Oktoberfest goer. But yet very few of us know how it all began or even who we have to thank for Oktoberfest as it is known today. It’s time to change that.

The first Oktoberfest: horse racing for a royal wedding
In the beer tents at the Oktoberfest, the principle still applies today: the customer is king. Nevertheless, it is thanks to a middle-class officer that around six million visitors come together so comfortably every year. Andreas Michael Dall'Armi, a member of the Bavarian National Guard, had the idea of celebrating the wedding of Prince Regent Ludwig of Bavaria, later King Ludwig I, and Princess Therese of Saxe-Hildburghausen in a different way: with a big horse race. The banker and cavalry major submitted his proposal to King Max I Joseph of Bavaria, who was immediately impressed.
The wedding took place on October 12, 1810 and the official festivities lasted five days. The celebrations in the city center, which were already referred to as a "folk festival" at the time, ended on October 17 with a horse race on a meadow outside the gates of Munich. Children dressed in Bavarian folk costumes paid homage to the royal family with poems, flowers and fruits of the land. The festival meadow was christened "Theresens-Wiese" in honor of the bride. This is still the name of the Oktoberfest site today: "Theresienwiese" - or "the Wiesn" for short in Munich parlance.
Even though there were no beer tents or fairground rides on the Wiesn at the time, this was the birth of the Oktoberfest. Andreas Michael Dall'Armi received the city of Munich's first gold citizens' medal for the "invention" of the Oktoberfest in 1824. His grave can be found in the Old Southern Cemetery and a street in the Neuhausen-Nymphenburg district was named after him.

1819: Oktoberfest becomes a municipal event
A year after the wedding celebrations of 1810, everyone was in agreement: "We want more!" Without the royal wedding, the festival naturally needed a new organizer and that became the ‘Landwirtschaftlicher Verein in Bayern’ [Bavarian agricultural association]. The newfound festivities created the perfect opportunity for the association to shine a spotlight on their own wares. As was notorious at the time, one big historical event followed after the other, which is why by 1813 the newly established Oktoberfest already had to be cancelled for the first time on account of the Napoleonic wars. After the war, Oktoberfest was financed privately until the city’s forefathers made the event a top priority in 1819. Even in the uppermost circles, the news had arrived that the Oktoberfest was guaranteed to draw a crowd, and that it would generate a wealth of revenue and should therefore be celebrated annually.

Oktoberfest in the 19th century: Bavaria, milestones, and difficult years
In 1850, there was finally something to celebrate again: the guardian of Oktoberfest and symbolic figure of Bavaria, the Bavaria statue, was unveiled and part of the Hall of Fame was inaugurated. This highlight was immediately followed by another difficult period. Wars and cholera caused many problems, but not a festive atmosphere.
It would take several decades before the hour of a modern-day institution struck, one that, with the best will in the world, is now an integral part of Oktoberfest: in 1881, the "first Hendlbraterei" (chicken rotisserie opened) and the now traditional “Wiesnhendl” was sold to hungry visitors. In the late 19th century, Oktoberfest increasingly developed into the festival we know today.

The Oktoberfest becomes a beer festival
In 1825, the municipal authorities issued a decree limiting the number of Munich beer vendors to 18. At that time, the festival grounds were characterized by the circular arrangement of the 18 wooden beer stalls: the Wirtsbudenring. Starting in 1895, the large breweries began to erect temporary beer halls for around 1,500 visitors. In 1898, Nuremberg festival host (Wiesnwirt) Georg Lang (1866-1904) had the first large beer tent erected on the Theresienwiese. With the help of straw workers, he succeeded in opening his "1. Bayerische Riesenhalle" (“1st Bavarian Giant Hall”) instead of five individual booths outside the Wirtsbudenring. In 1907, the many small stalls in the Wirtsbudenring were replaced by six festival halls belonging to Munich's major breweries. The division of the festival grounds into the current Wirtsbudenstraße and Schaustellerstraße in their present form was first introduced in 1930 as part of the reorganization of the festival by the Munich city administration. The beer halls have since become the symbol of the Wiesn.

Showmen have been at the Wiesn since 1818
The other part of the festival grounds continues to be dominated by the showmen's businesses. In 1818, the first carousel and two swings were set up – a modest offering of general entertainment during the first decades. The 1880s saw the heyday of the German fairground industry and the carousel industry. This laid another foundation stone for the Wiesn as we know it today: a wide range of rides, amusements, show booths, and much more delight young and old alike.

Oktoberfest in the 20th century: ups and downs
It took a while for the historic Oktoberfest to evolve into the festival we know today. On its 100th anniversary in 1910, 12,000 hectoliters of beer were served in the Pschorr-Bräurosl , which was the largest festival tent at the time with 12,000 seats. Every year, new and increasingly exciting rides were added to the Wiesn.
In the first half of the 20th century, the Oktoberfest was canceled several times due to the two world wars and economic crises, or had to be held as a smaller autumn festival. After World War II, the once obligatory horse race only took place again in the anniversary years 1960 and most recently in 2010.
In 1950, Munich's mayor Thomas Wimmer tapped the first beer barrel at Schottenhamel for the first time. In doing so, he set a not very flattering eternal record: with 17 strokes, it was not only the first, but also the “worst” tapping in the history of tapping. Since then, it has been a tradition for the mayor himself to do the tapping. The famous words “Ozapft is” have since achieved cult status. Since 1980, the incumbent Bavarian Minister-President has been presented with the first mug of beer by the mayor.

The assassination attempt of September 26, 1980
On September 26, 1980, a bomb exploded at the main entrance, killing 13 people and injuring over 200 visitors. Among the victims was the assassin himself, Gundolf Köhler. The Oktoberfest bombing is considered one of the worst attacks in German history. The investigation into the case was reopened between 2014 and 2020 and concluded that it was an act of right-wing extremist terrorism aimed at decisively influencing the 1980 federal election.

Ozapft is, brass band music, Oide Wiesn: This is how we celebrate today
Today, Oktoberfest is the largest folk festival in the world, attracting around six million visitors annually. To make the world's largest folk festival even more attractive for families, the “quiet Wiesn” was introduced in 2005. Since then, festival hosts have been required to play party music only after 6 p.m. and to stick to Bavarian brass band music before that time.
The history of the Wiesn has also been revived in a very beautiful way. For the 200th anniversary in 2010, a historical Wiesn was held in the southern part of the Theresienwiese in addition to the “regular” Oktoberfest, to commemorate the history of this festival. In addition to a family-friendly program, there was plenty of culture and even the horse race that started it all. The “ Oide Wiesn ” was such a success that it has been held every year since then — the locals in particular immediately fell in love with their “Oide.” Only when the Bavarian Central Agricultural Fair takes place every four years does it have to take a break for a year.
- When Oktoberfest had to be cancelled War, bombs, Cholera, Corona: years without Oktoberfest in Munich
When Oktoberfest had to be cancelled

War, bombs, Cholera, Corona: years without Oktoberfest in Munich
- Oide Wiesn Novelties, tents and showmen at the Oide Wiesn
Oide Wiesn

Novelties, tents and showmen at the Oide Wiesn

Source section: www.germany.travel
Wenn Sie dieses Video laden erklären Sie sich mit der Datenschutzerklärung von YouTube einverstanden.
By loading this video, you agree to YouTube's privacy policy .
En chargeant cette vidéo, vous acceptez la politique de confidentialité de YouTube.
Al cargar este video, acepta la política de privacidad de YouTube.

Weihnachtszeit in Deutschland – erleben, genießen, staunen
Wenn funkelnde Lichter historische Marktplätze, verwinkelte Altstadtgassen und festlich geschmückte Fußgängerzonen in eine zauberhafte Kulisse verwandeln, zieht der Duft von Zimt und gebrannten Mandeln durch die Luft - Deutschland wird zum Wintermärchen. Von der Küste bis zu den Alpen erwartet Sie eine Vielfalt an Weihnachtsmärkten - mal traditionell, mal modern, aber immer einzigartig. Entdecken Sie 16 ausgewählte Weihnachtsmärkte, die Lust machen auf mehr. Über unsere Suchmaschine haben Sie die Möglichkeit aus über 3.000 Weihnachtsmärkten deutschlandweit Ihren Lieblings-Ort zu finden.

Christmas Time in Germany – Experience, Enjoy, Be Amazed
When sparkling lights transform historic market squares, winding old-town alleys, and festively decorated shopping streets into a magical setting, the air fills with the scent of cinnamon and roasted almonds – Germany turns into a winter wonderland. From the coast to the Alps, you’ll find a wide variety of Christmas markets – some traditional, others modern, but all uniquely enchanting. Discover 16 carefully selected Christmas markets that will make you want to see more. They offer just a glimpse of the Christmas wonderland that is Germany.

Noël en Allemagne – vivre, savourer, s’émerveiller
Lorsque les lumières scintillantes transforment les places historiques, les ruelles médiévales et les rues commerçantes décorées en un décor féerique, l’air se remplit du parfum de la cannelle et des amandes grillées – l’Allemagne devient alors un véritable conte d’hiver. De la côte aux Alpes, une multitude de marchés de Noël vous attendent – tantôt traditionnels, tantôt modernes, mais toujours uniques. Découvrez 16 marchés de Noël soigneusement sélectionnés qui donnent envie d’en voir davantage. Ils ne sont qu’un aperçu du pays de Noël qu’est l’Allemagne. Grâce à notre moteur de recherche, vous pouvez choisir parmi plus de 3.000 marchés de Noël dans tout le pays pour trouver votre lieu préféré.

Navidad en Alemania – vivirla, disfrutarla, admirarla
Cuando las luces brillantes transforman las plazas históricas, los callejones medievales y las calles peatonales decoradas en un escenario mágico, el aire se llena del aroma de la canela y de las almendras tostadas: Alemania se convierte en un cuento de invierno. Desde la costa hasta los Alpes, le espera una gran variedad de mercados navideños: algunos tradicionales, otros modernos, pero todos con un encanto único. Descubra 16 mercados de Navidad seleccionados que invitan a conocer más. Son solo una pequeña muestra del país de la Navidad que es Alemania. A través de nuestro buscador, puede elegir entre más de 3.000 mercados navideños en todo el país para encontrar su lugar favorito.

Highlights der Weihnachtszeit
Hinter jedem Klang, jedem Duft und jeder Tradition verbirgt sich ein Stück deutscher Weihnacht. Altehrwürdige Bräuche, köstliche Rezepte und festliche Lieder erzählen Geschichten, die von Generation zu Generation weitergegeben werden. Von duftenden Lebkuchen aus Nürnberg bis zum originalen Dresdner Christstollen, von lebendigen Adventskalendern bis zu feiner Holzkunst aus dem Erzgebirge: Jede Region setzt eigene Akzente und macht die Adventszeit zu einem besonderen Erlebnis. Weihnachten in Deutschland ist eine Zeit, die alle Sinne berührt.

Highlights of the Christmas Season
Behind every sound, every scent, and every tradition lies a piece of the German Christmas spirit. Time-honoured customs, delicious recipes, and festive songs tell stories passed down through generations. From the fragrant gingerbread of Nuremberg to the original Dresden Christstollen, from living Advent calendars to the delicate woodcraft of the Ore Mountains – every region adds its own touch, turning Advent into a truly special experience. Christmas in Germany is a time that delights all the senses.

Les moments forts de la période de Noël
Derrière chaque son, chaque parfum et chaque tradition se cache un morceau de l’esprit de Noël allemand. Des coutumes ancestrales, des recettes gourmandes et des chants festifs racontent des histoires transmises de génération en génération. Des pains d’épices parfumés de Nuremberg au véritable stollen de Dresde, des calendriers de l’Avent vivants à la fine sculpture sur bois de l’Erzgebirge : chaque région apporte sa propre touche et fait de l’Avent une expérience unique. Noël en Allemagne est une période qui éveille tous les sens.

Momentos destacados de la Navidad
Detrás de cada sonido, cada aroma y cada tradición se esconde una parte de la Navidad alemana. Antiguas costumbres, deliciosas recetas y canciones festivas cuentan historias que se transmiten de generación en generación. Desde el pan de jengibre aromático de Núremberg hasta el auténtico stollen de Dresde, desde los calendarios de Adviento vivientes hasta el delicado arte en madera del Erzgebirge: cada región aporta su propio toque y convierte el Adviento en una experiencia especial. La Navidad en Alemania es una época que despierta todos los sentidos.

Weihnachtsglanz in Thüringen
Thüringen glänzt im Advent mit stimmungsvollen Märkten auf Burgen und Altstadtplätzen. Hier liegt der Geburtsort der Christbaumkugel, stand der erste Weihnachtsbaum auf einem Markt und entstanden weltbekannte Weihnachtslieder.

Christmas Magic in Thuringia
In Advent, Thuringia shines with atmospheric markets set against castles and historic town squares. This is the birthplace of the Christmas bauble, where the first Christmas tree was displayed at a market, and where world-famous Christmas carols originated.

Éclat de Noël en Thuringe
En période de l’Avent, la Thuringe brille grâce à ses marchés féeriques installés dans des châteaux et sur des places historiques. C’est ici qu’est née la boule de Noël, que le premier sapin de Noël a été exposé sur un marché et que sont nés des chants de Noël devenus célèbres dans le monde entier.

Brillo navideño en Turingia
En Adviento, Turingia resplandece con mercados llenos de ambiente en castillos y plazas históricas. Aquí nació la bola de Navidad, se colocó por primera vez un árbol navideño en un mercado y surgieron villancicos conocidos en todo el mundo.

Source section: www.germany.travel
Germans celebrate carnival in late winter. Depending on the region, carnival is also called “Fasching”. Both terms have their tradition in the exorcism of winter. People in elaborate costumes dance their way through the city. Read here where you can find the most exciting parties.
Carnival in North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate is also called the "Fifth Season" and is celebrated particularly extravagantly in these German provinces. Traditionally, the "Jecke Zeit" (crazy days) period is ushered in on 11 November, but it really gets going in the New Year with the Weiberfastnacht (Women's Carnival) and Rosenmontag (Shrove Monday), with the fun eventually ending on Ash Wednesday. However, until then, there will be singing, dancing and swaying in bars, halls and on the streets - and all of it while wearing fancy costumes and disguises. Festivals of this kind are said to have been already celebrated in antiquity. One thing is certain: the very first Shrove Monday procession took place in Cologne in 1823. Do you know what to chant when you are celebrating Carnival? You can usually win with "Alaaf" or "Helau".
Cologne
Cologne carnival ©Tourismus NRW e.V. (Oliver Franke)
The people of Cologne have a reputation for being fun and sociable, even without Carnival. Nevertheless, they really let it rip at carnival time: 1.5 million visitors have been counted at a Shrove Monday parade. This is the largest and oldest parade in the whole of Germany. The "Jecken" process out from four plazas towards the Alter Markt, where a Carnival festival programme featuring lots of music and the Triumvirate kicks off at 6 pm. In addition to costumed pedestrian troupes, marching bands and people on horseback, the procession also includes whimsical floats stretching along a total length of about eight kilometres. Sweets are often thrown from the floats.
Aachen
"Oche Alaaf", is what the people of Aachen shout at Carnival. This small town in North Rhine-Westphalia attracts up to 300,000 visitors. Concisely: the people of Aachen also celebrate carnival extensively and in accordance with the Rhenish carnival tradition. On Shrove Monday, the procession moves from Adalbertsteinweg via Wilhelmstrasse, Theaterstrasse, Elisenbrunnen, Peterstrasse, Komphausbadstrasse, Seilgraben, Menoritenstrasse, Grosskölnstrasse, Markt, Jakobstrasse and Karlsgraben.
Düsseldorf
Düsseldorf: Statue in front of the House of Carnival in the Old Town ©Adobe Stock (Kev95)
Carnival in Düsseldorf begins when the "Hoppeditz" awakens. The Hoppeditz is a jester figure played by a well-known carnival performer. Nevertheless, the crazy season ends on Ash Wednesday. The jester figure in the form of a puppet is then cremated in the garden of the Düsseldorf City Museum amid great lamentation, and symbolically laid to rest. Particularly exuberant and massive celebrations take place in Düsseldorf on Sunday and Monday. The festival takes place along Königsallee and in the Old Town. Ultimately, this Shrove Monday procession is the second largest in Germany with one million visitors.
Nuremberg
Nuremberg is definitely not a carnival hotspot like Cologne or Düsseldorf - at least that is how the people of Nuremberg see it. However, the statistics tell a different story: the city attracts 100,000 visitors on Carnival Sunday. The procession comprising around 50 floats travels from the Stadt-Park Bayreuther Strasse through Nuremberg's city centre to the White Tower. To ensure that the little ones also get their money is worth, there is a children's carnival procession on Shrove Monday.
Mainz
Mainz: Gutenberg monument with jester's cap on Shrovetide ©Adobe Stock (parallel_dream)
The people of Mainz do not call this carnival “Fasching”, instead here it's called “Mainzer Fastnacht”. Shrovetide kicks off on Schillerplatz . Here, the silly ceremonial laws are read out from the balcony of the Osteiner Hof and thousands of jesters celebrate this inaugural event every 11th November at 11.11 am. However, the highlight of the carnival is and remains Rose Monday. All of Mainz and its visitors are on their feet, transforming the city centre into a colourful sea of Jesters and Fools. The Rose Monday procession, with its political floats, marching bands, flag bearers and guards, makes its way along the celebrating crowd.
Würzburg
Dressing up, getting up to mischief, and letting off steam: Carnival is also celebrated in the Bavarian city of Würzburg : Each year, around 70,000 visitors sing, dance and march in the street procession. In addition to the children's masquerade procession on the Saturday before the carnival weekend; two other processions pass through the city on Sunday and Tuesday.
Marne
Verkleidete Frau zu Karneval, Fasching ©gettyimages (MaBu Pictures / 500px)
Marne is one of the few northern German towns where Carnival has been celebrated on a large scale since 1978. About 30 vehicles and pedestrian groups take part in the parade and a total of about 20,000 visitors watch the spectacle every year. About four tonnes of sweets are thrown during this event.
Smaller parades and Carnival festivals also take place in many Rhineland towns as well as in Hesse, Frankfurt am Main, and also Hamburg and Berlin.

Discover more

Cities with amazing zoos: wildly good attractions

Top tips for special holiday experiences

Tracing the Path of the German Hanseatic League

In the footsteps of German poets

Active travel in Germany

Along the magic of peaceful lakes and wild river landscapes!
