Title: German Culture
Source: https://www.make-it-in-germany.com/en/living-in-germany/settling/useful-everyday-knowledge
Source: https://handbookgermany.de/en/faq
Source: https://handbookgermany.de/en/learning-german/
Content:

Source section: www.make-it-in-germany.com
Find answers to frequently asked questions about Germany. Topics range from public holidays and emergency numbers to mobile phone contracts.
Many things are different in Germany, such as opening hours of stores, waste separation or the purchase of a SIM card. Here you will find answers to the most important questions about everyday life in Germany.
In Germany, public holidays are determined by the federal states. The only exception is the national holiday on 3 October – the Day of German Unity – which is set by federal law and applies throughout Germany. There are also a number of public holidays that have been declared by all the federal states, which means that they apply to the whole of Germany. Examples include New Year’s Day, Easter and Christmas. In Germany, you do not have to work on public holidays and your children do not have to go to school. Shops and supermarkets remain closed on public holidays, which is why many German families use such days to go on trips or simply to relax. Most public holidays in Germany have a religious background, especially at Christmas and Easter, when a sense of peace and quiet is expected.
Germany has a temperate climate with continental influences. This means that there are distinct seasons with different temperatures. The average annual temperature is 10.9 degrees.
In the north of Germany, especially in the coastal regions, the climate is often cooler and harsher. Here the weather is characterised by wind and rain. Southern Germany has a lot of forests and mountains, with an alpine climate in some high-altitude areas. Despite its climate zone, Germany has a relatively warm climate for Central Europe due to the influence of the Gulf Stream, with temperatures often rising above 30 degrees in summer.
The most common plugs in Germany are Type F and C. Type C plugs are also known as Europlugs. Virtually all sockets in Europe are compatible with these plugs. It is important to note that the sockets in Germany are designed for a mains voltage of 220-250 volts. The Schuko Type F plug can also be used in most European countries. This plug is mainly used for larger electrical appliances such as washing machines. Another type is the contour plug, which, like the Europlug, is used for similarly small appliances.
In Germany, not all shops are open every day. Shop owners are free to decide how many hours they are open, as long as they comply with the rules of their federal state. Large supermarkets are usually open at least from 7 am to 8 pm, although urban supermarkets tend to have longer opening hours than those in rural areas. Smaller outlets often close in the afternoon on Saturdays. Most shops are closed on Sundays and public holidays. Some, such as petrol stations and railway station shops, are open on Sundays. Pharmacies also provide an emergency service on Sundays to ensure that medical care is available locally.
In an emergency, it is important to know the emergency numbers to call for help. Emergency calls are free.
110: The emergency number for the police. This is the number to call if you have an emergency requiring police assistance. Cases that may require police involvement include criminal offences or situations where you feel or suspect that you are in danger.
112: The emergency number for the fire brigade and emergency services. Call this number in the event of a fire or acute medical emergency. Examples include severe injury or allergic shock. You can usually call 112 even if there is no signal. The phone uses another operator’s mobile network to make the emergency call.
116117: This is the number for the non-emergency medical on-call service. You can call this number if you need medical help but your situation is not life-threatening. If normal surgeries are already closed, this is where you can find out which out-of-hours surgery is open in your area. If you are too ill to go to the doctor, the emergency medical services can also send a doctor on call to your home.
You can buy a German SIM card in places like supermarkets, discounters and drugstore chains, or directly from a mobile phone provider’s shop, and sometimes at kiosks and petrol stations. You will need to bring proof of identity to activate the card. If you do not yet have German documents such as a registration certificate or a residence permit, you may have problems with some providers. In this case, please contact the consumer advice centre (Verbraucherzentrale) (External link) in the federal state where you live. For more information on mobile phones and contracts, please refer to the “Handbook Germany” website under the heading Mobile Phone Contracts (External link) .
To take out a mobile contract in Germany, you need to meet a number of requirements: you must have an identity card or passport, bank details and a place of residence in Germany. Mobile phone providers often also require a Schufa report – a document that proves your creditworthiness. In most cases, however, you do not have to provide the Schufa report yourself, but simply have to sign a consent form allowing the provider to access your credit history. Once you have all the necessary documents, you are free to sign a contract of your choice.
Mobile phone contracts are usually for 24 months and can only be cancelled after the minimum term. Some contracts include a mobile phone. If this is the case, it is important to compare the price of the contract with others to see if it is a good deal. The best way to compare contracts is online, where you can see different offers and their prices at a glance.
If you do not want to sign a contract, you can buy a prepaid mobile phone.
Sending mail in Germany is fast and usually inexpensive. Post offices are often open into the evening during the week. They close at noon on Saturdays and are usually closed all day on Sundays. In larger cities, some branches are often open longer at weekends.
You can send both letters and parcels via the post office. Letters can be posted in roadside letterboxes. Stamps cost between €0.85 and €3.00, depending on the size and weight of the letter. Prices for parcels are slightly higher. These can be taken to your local post office. There are also automated Packstations in many places, which are unmanned and therefore open at all times. You can use a Packstation to send parcels or collect parcels that could not be delivered to your home. It is also possible to have parcels ordered online sent directly to a Packstation. This means you do not need to be at home to receive your parcel. You can collect it at a time that suits you.
Within Germany, letters and parcels are delivered within three working days and in many cases even faster. If you want to make sure that your letter arrives quickly, you can pay a surcharge for delivery on the next possible working day.
A distinction is usually made between the following types of waste:
- Yellow bin (referred to as “gelbe Tonne”, “gelber Sack” or “grüner Punkt”): Plastic waste (all packaging that is not made of paper or glass, e.g. juice and milk cartons, tin cans, yoghurt pots, etc.) is recycled/reused.
- Blue bin (referred to as “Altpapier”): Cardboard and paper waste (e.g. newspapers, parcel boxes, cigarette packets), with the exception of heavily soiled/oily paper packaging such as pizza boxes, which should be disposed of in residual waste - is recycled/reused.
- Black bin (referred to as “schwarze Tonne”): Residual or household waste and any waste that cannot be recycled (e.g. sanitary products, vacuum cleaner bags, cigarette butts, soiled packaging).
- Green or brown bin (referred to as “grüne Tonne”, “braune Tonne” or “Biomüll”): Fruit and vegetable scraps, egg shells, coffee grounds and leaves can be composted.
You will usually find these four bins in your backyard or basement. If you do not have a green or brown bin, your green waste will be collected on certain days by the refuse collection service. For all other types of waste, you will need to go to one of the containers listed below in your area.
Special rules apply to large bulky waste, hazardous waste and electrical/electronic waste. You must either register this waste for collection or take it to a recycling depot. Small batteries and electrical appliances can sometimes be disposed of in special boxes in supermarkets or in a special container. You can take used clothes to your local clothes bank. There are penalties for improper waste disposal or fly-tipping.
Many drinks containers are subject to a deposit (Pfand) in Germany. You pay between €0.08 and €0.25 more for the drink in the supermarket, which is refunded when you return the empty container. You simply return the bottle or can to a reverse vending machine in the supermarket and hand in the receipt at the checkout. There is usually a special symbol printed on the bottle to indicate that it has a deposit.
Glass bottles that do not have a deposit (e.g. oil, wine, vinegar) must be disposed of in the bottle bank together with other glass jars and bottles (e.g. jams, sauces, mustard). There are three different containers: amber glass, white glass and green glass. Please note: It is not permitted to dispose of glass at night or on public holidays due to the noise. Drinking glasses and window panes should be disposed of as residual waste.
You can find more information on the topic of “waste” here (External link) .
Pets are very popular in Germany. However, there are a number of rules that pet owners should be aware of.
If you live in a rented property, you must check your tenancy agreement to see what pets, if any, you are allowed to have.
Almost all municipalities charge a dog licence fee. Some federal states have additional requirements for certain types of animals. For example, specific breeds of dog must be kept on a lead or muzzled. Liability insurance may also be required for some breeds. Even if it is not compulsory, it is often wise to take out such insurance as you, the owner, are liable for any damage caused by your pet. Some small animals, such as cats, can often be included free of charge in your personal liability insurance. If you want to keep an exotic animal, you should also check the local regulations.
Special rules apply if you come to Germany with the intention of bringing your pet from abroad. There may be requirements such as a minimum age or vaccinations for the animal. The details vary greatly depending on which country the animal comes from. An overview of the conditions that apply when you bring your pet to Germany can be found on the internet.
- Goethe-Institut Pre-integration Welcome Coaches
- Welcome Coaches
- Integration through Qualification (IQ) IQ advisory services for individuals with foreign qualifications in Germany
- International Organization for Migration | IOM, UN Migration Resources for Navigating Life in Germany: Workbook & Digital Companion App
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.
- E-Mail
- Hotline
- FAQ

Source section: handbookgermany.de
FAQ

Frequently asked questions
What is “Handbook Germany : Together”?
“Handbook Germany : Together” – the central digital hub (HBGT) was a project of the Neue deutschen Medienmacher * innen e.V.. The project duration was from 01.01.2023 to 31.10.2025.
Since 01.11.2025 the website handbookgermany.de is operated by Handbook Germany gGmbH.
What are the goals of the “Handbook Germany : Together” project?
We provide reliable information, exchange, and initial advice for people who are neither from an EU member state nor the European Economic Area (EEA) and have a perspective to stay in Germany. The project team develops orientation aids and access to support and advisory services, clarifies the responsibilities of different authorities, and provides understandable insights into procedural processes. This also includes explaining the rights of those affected alongside their obligations. We offer guidance on what legal, i.e., lawful, options individuals have according to the rule of law in Germany.
The rule of law also includes informing people about the possibility of appealing against decisions made by authorities. Ultimately, people are integrated when they are aware of their rights and duties in Germany and can manage their everyday lives well. Through our informational work, we contribute to this objective. Our task is to disseminate information online in various languages. As a democratic state, Germany ensures that even people with limited German skills can exercise their right to access information.
A far-reaching portal plays a significant role in integration with its multilingual offerings. In 2024 alone (01.01.2024–15.09.2024), we had over 20.7 million page views.
Digitalisation is a profound and continuous transformation process that fundamentally changes how we live, work, and interact. Therefore, our central goal is actively shaping digital transformation in migration and integration. We are creating a digital infrastructure used by organisations, municipalities, and institutions that serves as a central interface to digital services and information from authorities and ministries. This infrastructure is continuously being further developed. Digitalisation is crucial, In particular, For Germany as an immigration country to remain attractive in the global competition for skilled workers and their families and to support people with a perspective to stay in their participation in society.
What content does the “Handbook Germany : Together” project offer?
“Handbook Germany : Together” offers texts, videos, and a forum on a variety of topics. With content from previous funding periods of the project "Central Information Platform for Refugees www.handbookgermany.de," we currently offer a total of over 160 topic pages in nine languages in the following areas:
Until 19.11.2024 :
Living : Information on everyday life in Germany, such as housing search, waste separation, banking, and public transport.
Work : Guidance on job search, recognition of foreign qualifications, labour law, social security, and taxes.
Learning : The essentials about daycare centres, schools, universities, and vocational training in Germany.
Language : Information on integration and language courses, German for the workplace, and other ways to learn and improve German.
Rights & Laws : Explanations about fundamental rights, residence, naturalisation, and support systems like youth services and police, as well as information on dealing with discrimination.
Migration to Germany : Information on visas, especially for skilled workers, residence permits, and family reunification.
Family : Support regarding child benefits, parental leave, child-rearing, and issues of marriage and custody.
Health : Explanations on the health system, doctor visits, prevention, and emergency care.
Since 19.11.2024 :
Living : Information on everyday life in Germany, such as waste separation, banking, and public transport.
Housing : Advice on renting, housing search, living, and moving.
Education : The essentials about daycare centres, schools, universities, and vocational training in Germany.
Migration : Information on visas, especially for skilled workers, residence permits, and family reunification.
The content of the "Handbook Germany : Together" project has been integrated into the existing system (since 19.11.2024) within the current digital infrastructure from previous funding periods (see: History ).
How is the “Handbook Germany : Together” project funded? The project is 90% co-financed by the Asylum, Migration, and Integration Fund (AMIF) of the EU, as well as by the Federal Ministry of the Interior (BMI) and the Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration, who is also the Federal Government Commissioner for Antiracism, and the International Rescue Committee. The total funding amount for the period from 01.01.2023 to 31.12.2025 is EUR 9,943,423.23.
Since when has the website handbookgermany.de existed?
The website handbookgermany.de went online on 01.02.2017. In the previous funding period (from 01.09.2016 to 31.12.2022), the project was officially called “Central Information Platform for Refugees www.handbookgermany.de” and was funded by the Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration. All asylum-related content on the website was created at that time and has only been updated voluntarily since then. The platform also provided extensive information for students and people with residence permits on various topics such as work, housing, family, etc. The total funding amount for the different project phases was EUR 5,228,701.42.
Breakdown by funding periods:
2016/ Information platform for refugees, Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration: EUR 135,616.66
2017/ Information platform for refugees, Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration: EUR 476,239.61
2018/ Central Information Platform for Refugees www.handbookgermany.de, Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration: EUR 804,206.96
2019/ Central Information Platform for Refugees www.handbookgermany.de, Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration: EUR 852,568.00
2020/ Central Information Platform for Refugees www.handbookgermany.de, Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration: EUR 917,068.00
2021/ Central Information Platform for Refugees www.handbookgermany.de, Handbook Germany: Women in Focus - Active Information Work, Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration: EUR 1,018,353.00
2022/ Central Information Platform for Refugees www.handbookgermany.de, Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration: EUR 1,024,649.19
What is the connection between the project "Together in Germany" and the project "Handbook Germany: Together"?
The full project name of “ Together in Germany ” was: “Building a Community Platform for Third-Country Nationals Living in Germany.”
The project's objective was to design and build a multilingual, mobile-optimised community platform for people from “third countries” with a perspective to stay. This platform allowed both advisors and the target group to participate actively. It provided a GDPR-compliant digital space, independent of social networks, where support for questions could be found and access to the existing advisory landscape was facilitated. The community platform is being merged with the informational pages and further developed within the ongoing project “Handbook Germany : Together” and migrated to the new digital infrastructure.
The funding period began on 15.11.2020 and ended on 31.12.2022.
The project was co-financed by the Asylum, Migration, and Integration Fund (AMIF) of the EU by 90%, as well as by BAMF, the Senate Administration for Integration, Work, and Social Affairs - Berlin, and later by the International Rescue Committee Germany (IRC). The total funding amount was EUR 1,821,001.32.
After the Solingen attack: Since 28.08.2024, our website has been the target of false claims.
Contrary to some accusations, we do not provide guidance on how laws can be circumvented. Instead, we offer comprehensive information on the legal situation. Quotes circulating on certain blogs regarding this matter are false. It is claimed that we, funded by the Federal Ministry of the Interior and Homeland as well as the Federal Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration, give tips to people required to leave the country on how to avoid deportation. This is untrue .
With the "Handbook Germany" project, we provide a platform that informs people who have migrated to Germany about life here. We offer practical assistance and explain their rights and obligations. Part of this work focused on the asylum process. We explain how the process works, what types of residence permits exist, and what obligations individuals must meet. This also includes providing information on the legal options available after a rejected asylum application, as is customary in the rule of law.
We aim to support people in their integration by helping them understand their rights and responsibilities in Germany. Through our informational work, we make an essential contribution to this objective.

Source section: handbookgermany.de
Learning German

Where and how can I learn German?
There are various ways to learn German and improve your proficiency, even if you are not (yet) allowed to attend an integration- or vocational language course. Here we show you which possibilities you have to learn the German language cost-free or at an affordable cost.

What options are available?
There are many cost-free German courses, mainly organised by volunteers. Teachers in these courses are often not professional educators, but people who would like to help the newcomers in Germany. Most of these courses are for beginners, but there are also courses for more advanced German learners. For some of these courses, you have to register, but in others, you can just go there on the designated dates and participate. On our Local Search page , you can search for a free German course nearby. If you cannot find any free German courses around, ask a Migration Counselling centre or the Youth Migration Service for help. In some cities, Adult Education Centres (“Volkshochschule”) offer free German courses for refugees.
In addition, many universities offer German courses for refugees. Most of these university courses are cost-free, as they are either funded by the respective university or the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD). Some of these courses aim to prepare the participants for studying at the respective university. In others, you may participate without any further requirement. If there is a university or college in your city, visit their website and search for 'Angeboten für geflüchtete Menschen ' or contact the International Office, the Language Center ("Sprachenzentrum") or The Centre for Applied Linguistics and Special Languages ("Fachsprachenzentrum") in the university directly.
German courses in official language schools, such as the Goethe Institute, are often quite pricey, and you usually have to pay for them personally. The language courses in Adult Education Centres ("Volkshochschule" or VHS) are another affordable alternative. Adult Education Centres are available in almost every German city. If you have a job and need to advance your knowledge of German to handle your day-to-day work better, you may ask your boss if he/she is willing to pay for your German course within the framework of further education or "Weiterbildung".
Please note : Some German foundations and universities provide scholarships for advanced German-learners. For example, the Institute for International Communication (IIK) in Düsseldorf offers several scholarships per year for their different types of summer courses (starting from B1). If you are enrolled at a university and have been living in Germany for less than 15 months, you are eligible to apply for a language scholarship at the German Academic Exchange Service (“Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst” or DAAD). As an academician, you can also apply for a fellowship at the Humboldt Foundation if you are planning to continue your research in Germany. Humboldt Foundation offers scholarships for intensive German courses, among other things, but their academic selection criteria are quite strict.
There are often many volunteers in the so-called language cafés ("Sprachcafés" or language meet-ups) who can help you learn German. In the language cafés, you can meet other people and speak German with them to practice and learn new words. You may also find new friends in these cafés and meet-ups. Here, it does not matter if you are a beginner or an advanced-learner; everyone can take part in these often small groups and speak German with others.
On our Local Search page , you can search for a language café nearby. If you cannot find any free German course around, ask a Migration Counselling centre or the Youth Migration Service for help.
You can also look for a tandem partner. A tandem partner is a person who speaks German very well and wants to learn your language. Tandem partners meet and try to exchange their knowledge of their respective language by talking together, so this is a win-win situation: you learn German, and the other person can learn your language cost-free.
You can search for a tandem partner in your area on our Local Search pages. If you cannot find anyone, ask a Migration Counselling Centre or the Youth Migration Service for help.
You can search for a tandem partner in your area on our Local Search page . If you cannot find anyone, ask a Migration Counselling Centre or the Youth Migration Service for help. There is also the option of forming a tandem online. On Tandem.net/de, you can search for tandem partners worldwide and improve your language skills with the help of native speakers.
A “Patentschaft” or mentorship is a great opportunity if you want to improve your German language skills and settle into society. Through regular contact with a mentor or through everyday interactions and cultural exchange, you can properly practice the language. Local organisations, associations and online platforms can help you find a mentor.
These mentorships can be quite effective if you do activities together, are patient and set goals for language learning. Successful examples show how helpful this support can be. For example, the Little World platform connects people who want to improve their German with volunteers who are ready to support them. You can find out more about mentorship programmes in our chapter “ Social Mentoring ”.
There are various ways to practice German independently and online:
- The website dw.com and the Adult Education Centre's portal will help you learn German - regardless of your current knowledge of the language. Here, you can learn German vocabulary and grammar and practice listening comprehension, reading and writing.
- At deutschakademie.de and deutsch-lernen.com , you can complete online German courses of different levels free of charge.
- The Goethe Institut e offers beginners and advanced learners various opportunities to learn and practice German. There you can also learn relevant vocabulary for specific professions .
- There is also a beginner's booklet that you can download for free in many different languages.
- At lernox.de, you can find many videos and exercise sheets on various topics that can help you learn German.
- On ondaz.de you will find interactive exercises on various grammar topics. You can also register there so that you can always keep an eye on your progress. In the "andere Webseiten" tab, you will also find links to other platforms on which you can practice listening comprehension, for example.
- At lunes.app , you can download a free vocabulary app, where you will mainly find German vocabulary relevant to training and work in different fields such as handicrafts, health care and office work.
- There is also the German course “Almani Be Farsi” with over 300 lessons for Farsi speakers and another one entailing various YouTube videos for Arabic-speaking people who would like to learn German.
A comprehensive overview of all audio and video materials for different language levels can be found on the website of the Alumniportals Deutschland . There you will also find learning materials which will help you to prepare for various German exams.
In public libraries, you will find many dictionaries and learning materials for improving your German. You can also study there in peace and (often also) surf the Internet. You can search for a public library nearby on bibliotheksportal.de . Membership is either free or pretty low-priced. Many libraries also have special offers for refugees. You can find out more at Library offers for refugees.

Important
The most important thing when learning a new language is practising. So: Dare to speak German! It is completely normal to make a lot of mistakes at the beginning. But you will still be understood and eventually become more fluent.

Similar topics
- Integration Course Migration Citizenship Education Learn German

Integration Course
- German for Work Work Job Search & Recognition Education Learn German

German for Work
- School-based Vocational training Education Vocational Training

School-based Vocational training
- Dual Vocational Training Education Vocational Training

Dual Vocational Training
- University System Education Study

University System

Additional links

Learn with DW
Deutsche Welle (DW) offers numerous online teaching materials and interactive programmes for all learners, from A1 to more advanced levels.

German vocabulary for work
With the Lunes app, you can expand your German vocabulary to better understand and speak German at work.

Learn German online
On the BAMF website, you will find an overview of free offers to learn German online.

Local Search
On our local search page, you can look for a German course nearby. Enter the name of your city and the words "German", "German Course" or "German Courses" as keyword to find courses in your area.

Little World - Learn German with a mentor
The Little World platform connects people who want to learn German with volunteers who want to help.
