Title: Hiking in Germany
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/nature-outdoor-activities/goldsteig.html
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/nature-outdoor-activities/sauerland-rothaargebirge-nature-park.html
Source: https://www.nationalpark-bayerischer-wald.bayern.de/english/visitor/hiking/index.htm
Content:

Source section: www.germany.travel
At 660 kilometres, the Goldsteig Trail is the longest certified hiking trail in Germany. The trail to the north through the Bavarian Forest National Park is an athletic challenge, the trail to the south is more relaxed.
Where does the name "Goldsteig" come from? Back in the Middle Ages, "white gold" (salt) was transported in eastern Bavaria from Nuremberg to Prague on a trade route. The region also has a wealth of streams and mines where gold seekers once hunted for the precious metal. On our hike along the Goldsteig trail today, the route gifts us with a hiking adventure worth its weight in gold. We experience Bavaria's unspoiled natural world on the long route from the Upper Palatinate through the Bavarian Forest . The Goldsteig Trail starts in Marktredwitz and ends in Passau, the city of three rivers – the Inn, Ilz and Danube. You can stop for a relaxing break on one of the 70 sun loungers on the Goldsteig Trail. We enjoy the amazing vistas and take in the fresh air. Other high points, in the truest sense of the word, on this route are the fantastic Rachel, Lusen and Großer Falkenstein mountain summits. The Goldsteig region is renowned for its Bavarian beer. The amber nectar is perfectly matched with the hearty local cuisine. And if you hold your beer stein up to the sun, you will discover the golden treasure of the Goldsteig Trail.

TIP: the stage from Eck to the Großer Arber

Manuel Andrack, editor, presenter, author and hiking blogger:
"I recommend the stage from Eck to the Großer Arber – a worthwhile challenge. We hike over a total of eight one-thousanders. Once we reach the Großer Arber, we take a proud look back at all the summits lined up, as if on a pearl necklace."

Discover more

Active travel in Germany

Street art is taking over the cities

University Cities: Youthful Vibes and Colorful Atmosphere

Old Towns with UNESCO World Heritage status

Cities with Roman roots: whose idea was that? The Romans!

12 Spots for Unforgettable Photos

Explore the surroundings

Source section: www.germany.travel
The Sauerland Rothaargebirge Nature Park is one of the most attractive hiking regions in Germany, with an abundance of forests, the highest mountains in North Rhine-Westphalia and excellent hiking trails.
The snow-covered low mountain range landscape in winter, varied hiking trails such as the Rothaarsteig and Sauerland-Höhenflug in summer, as well as exciting cultural and industrial landmarks make North Rhine-Westphalia's largest nature park an attractive destination all year round. Spruce and deciduous forests, green valleys and floodplain landscapes, mountains, meadows and juniper heathland form the backdrop for winter sports, hiking, climbing and cycling over an area of more than 3,800 square kilometres. The Rothaar Mountains extend across the nature park, separating Sauerland, Siegerland and the Wittgensteiner Land, which is home to the only free-ranging herd of European bison (Wisents) in Central Europe. The nature park is also home to the two highest peaks in the province, the 843m-high Kahler Asten and the Langenberg, which is exactly two metres higher. The region is characterised by a rich history and down-to-earth people who cherish their heritage as affectionately as their warm hospitality.

Explore the surroundings

Source section: www.nationalpark-bayerischer-wald.bayern.de
Hiking

Bilderslider
Crafted wooden information panels provide interesting facts in many places.
A particularly popular viewpoint is at the Rachelkapell, where you can have a great view towards the Rachelsee.
Good footwear is absolutely necessary on summit tours.
In some areas, like at Mittelsteighütte, one can experience remains of native forest areas.
Elsewhere, boardwalks lead through particularly sensitive areas, such as bogs or alluvial forests.
There are more than 20 rangers in the area, who are glad to answer the visitor’s questions.
Even in winter, you can do a hiking tour - there are many rolled winter hiking trails at the lower areas.
On foot, you may discover our impressive nature with its various habitats in the most intensive way. In order to do this, we offer you a system of signposted trails, which invite you to explore the national park’s nature on a stretch of 350 kilometers.
Basically, there are two different kinds of ways. On circular routes, which are marked with an animal symbol on yellow background, you will always return to the starting point. Routes, which are marked with plant symbols on white background, lead from A to B. In addition, there are some long-distance hiking trails, as the certified quality hiking trail ‘Goldsteig’ or the European long-distance hiking trail ‘E6’ - both with special symbols.
At the most interesting places within our national park, you will also find several adventure trails, such as the so called ‘Seelensteig’, the ‘Aufichtenwaldsteg’ below Rachel, the ‘Natur-Erlebnis-Pfad’ within the forest playground Spiegelau, the ‘Windwurf-Erlebnispfad’ at Falkenstein, the ‘Erlebnisweg Schachten und Filze’ at Frauenau, or the adventure trail through the native forest area ‘Hans-Watzlik-Hain’ at Zwieslerwaldhaus.
Even in winter, there is no need to forego hiking pleasure. Especially in the national park’s lower areas, there is an extensive network of rolled or cleared winter hiking trails – for example around Lusen National Park Centre or Falkenstein National Park Centre , as well as at the forest playground Spiegelau. Snowshoe tours are available too.
Further tips concerning your stay in the Bavarian Forest National Park can be found in our Frequently Asked Questions .
- Tours tips for hiking
- Current way state
- Map of hiking paths
- Map of winter hiking paths, ski tracks and toboggan run
