Title: Job Search and Job Seeker Options Germany
Source: https://www.make-it-in-germany.com/en/working-in-germany/job/looking-for-job
Content:

Source section: www.make-it-in-germany.com
Whether you are abroad or already in Germany, find out here how to encounter job opportunities in Germany.
Here we will show you some options for finding a suitable job offer , and you can inform yourself about different professions. However, we recommend that you first do the Quick-Check to verify which requirements are fundamental and must be respected.
Are you considering working in Germany? The Federal Employment Agency (BA) can support you with their free-of-charge comprehensive advisory services. The BA’s international experts are at your side – from the beginning of your application, right up to when you start to work and live in Germany. Learn more about your opportunities on the German job market. (External link)
On the BA's website BERUFENET (External link) you can get detailed information on various professional fields as well as find out what your profession is called in Germany and what it entails.
Are you already in Germany? If you are already living in Germany or are staying in Germany temporarily, the local Employment Agency will also help you during the jobhunting process. You can get free on-site advice in almost all German cities. The local employment agencies are part of the Federal Employment Agency.
Would you like to look for a job in Germany with the Opportunity card ? Please refer to our “ Oportunity card ” section to find out how to apply for it.
In the "Make it in Germany" job listings you will find job offers from the Federal Employment Agency (BA), where employers highly welcome applications from abroad.
To the job listings
The EURES portal (External link) (available in multiple languages) presents job prospects all over Europe and information on EU funding programmes. Via the job search (External link) you can find job vacancies, information on living and working conditions in the countries and contact details for EURES advisers. EURES regularly organises job fairs in many countries and online. Check the dates on the European Job Days website (External link) , on the EURES portal (External link) , or follow EURES on Facebook (External link) , LinkedIn (External link) , and/or YouTube (External link) .
Do you already know companies in Germany, or did you come across certain company names during your job research? Many companies also publish their vacancies on their websites. It is best to search on their respective homepages using the keywords “Stellenangebote” (job offers), “Karriere” (career) or “Vakanzen” (vacancies). A speculative application can be worthwhile. Be active and publish your personal profile online in various business networks and job portals. Interested companies will then become aware of you and can contact you directly.
Private recruitment agencies offer another alternative for finding a job. They are looking for job positions specifically suited to you. Please make sure to get information on potential fees in advance in case you choose to make use of their services. In our “ Placement agencies ” section, you will learn how to identify reputable agencies and what to look out for. This will help you find a safe way to Germany.
- Federal Employment Agency Tips for job hunting and interviews
- Federal Office for Migration and Refugees Checklist for your application documents
- Europass Info The Europass curriculum vitae for applicants
Let us advise you on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Our experts will support you with questions regarding job search, visa, recognition and learning German.
You can find out more about the various contact options by clicking on one of the icons in the top bar.
- E-Mail
- Hotline
- Chat
- FAQ
