Title: Maternity Protection Parental Leave Germany
Source: https://www.make-it-in-germany.com/en/living-in-germany/family-life/financial-support-families
Source: https://familienportal.de/familienportal/meta/languages/family-benefits/parental-allowance-141952
Content:

Source section: www.make-it-in-germany.com
In Germany, it is possible for both parents to take parental leave after the birth of their child. You can find further information on the duration and possibilities for financial support here.
After the birth of a child, mothers and fathers have the right to take a break from work to care for their child and spend time with their family. During this time, the employer may only terminate the employment relationship in exceptional circumstances (e.g. insolvency, shutdown of the business). As an employee, you can request up to three years off work from your employer. During this time, you do not have to work. But if you choose not to work, you will not receive any pay. One way to compensate for this is to apply for parental allowance. You can take parental leave before your child’s third birthday. You can also take some parental leave between your child’s third and eighth birthdays. In other words: you can take parental leave when you and your child really need it. At the end of parental leave, parents have the right to work as much as they did before taking parental leave. If you wish to apply for parental leave, the Parental Allowance Offices can help you. You can find their addresses on the familienportal.de (External link) website.

Who is entitled to parental leave?
Employees who have a German employment contract – whether full-time, part-time, marginal employment, fixed-term or permanent contract, etc. – are entitled to parental leave. The title also applies to trainees. The entitlement to parental leave exists until the child reaches the age of three. Students, pupils, interns, self-employed people or unemployed people are not entitled to parental leave.
If both parents of a child are employed, they can take parental leave alternately or simultaneously. It is important to note, however, that parental leave is only available to working mothers and fathers who also live in the same household as the child and predominantly care for their child themselves.
Here (External link) you can find more information about the duration, registration deadlines and protection against dismissal during parental leave.

Parental allowance
During parental leave, you will not receive a salary from your employer. However, you can apply for parental allowance, a form of financial support from the government that compensates you if you temporarily work less or not at all after the birth of your child.
Thus, parental allowance helps secure the financial livelihood of these families. Even parents who had no income at all before their child was born are entitled to receive parental allowance. There are three different types of parental allowance:
- Basic Parental Allowance (Basiselterngeld)
- Parental Allowance Plus (ElterngeldPlus)
- Partnership Bonus (Partnerschaftsbonus)
These three options can also be combined, depending on your needs and individual situation. The length of time you receive parental allowance depends on the option(s) you choose.
Here (External link) you can find more information on parental allowance and parental allowance Plus (ElterngeldPlus).

Do families of international skilled workers also receive parental allowance?
Citizens of countries in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland can receive parental allowance if they live and work in Germany. Even if you are a citizen of another country, you are entitled to parental allowance if you have a residence title that allows you to work in Germany. If you are in Germany for your studies or vocational training, you will not receive parental allowance. You can find more details on the family portal (External link) or ask your parental allowance office (External link) .

How much parental allowance can I receive?
The amount of parental allowance depends on your personal life situation and on the parental allowance variant you choose. With the parental allowance calculator (External link) you can get an estimate of how much parental allowance you are entitled to. This estimate is not binding. This means that you may receive more or less.

How and where do I apply for parental allowance?
To receive parental allowance, you must apply via an application form in writing. You can hand in the application form at the office responsible for you. You can get advice there beforehand. You can download the application form that applies to you on familienportal.de (External link) . You can also submit the application online (External link) .
- Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth (BMFSFJ) Information on the legal provisions and regulations governing parental leave
- Familienportal.de Child supplements check Questions and answers on new regulations and flexibilization of parental leave General information on the provisions, duration and calculation of parental allowance
- Questions and answers on new regulations and flexibilization of parental leave
- General information on the provisions, duration and calculation of parental allowance
- Federal Employment Agency (BA) The Representatives for Equal Opportunities on the Labour Market (BCA) answer questions on reconciling family and career.
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.
- E-Mail
- Hotline
- FAQ

Source section: familienportal.de
- Kontakt Wir beantworten Ihre Fragen.
- Beratung vor Ort Finden Sie zuständige Behörden und Beratungsstellen.
- Krisentelefone und Anlaufstellen in Notlagen

Parental Allowance

Parental Allowance options
Parental Allowance helps families towards financial security after the birth of a child. You can choose from several Parental Allowance options: Basic Parental Allowance, Parental Allowance Plus and Partnership Bonus.
Couples can split 14 months of Basic Parental Allowance, calculated from the date of birth, between themselves. Each parent can apply for between 2 and 12 months. Both parents can concurrently draw Basic Parental Allowance for one month. They must do so within 12 months of the child’s birth.
You can trade each month of Basic Parental Allowance for two months of Parental Allowance Plus. If you do so, you can receive Parental Allowance for twice as long. From the first month from the date of birth, you can combine Basic Parental Allowance and Parental Allowance Plus and so receive Parental Allowance concurrently with the other parent for more than one month.
For example: a mother gets the Basic Parental Allowance during months 1 to 8 after her child’s birth. At the same time, the father draws Basic Parental Allowance in month 1 and Parental Allowance Plus in months 2 and 3. In months 7 to 9, both parents receive Parental Allowance Plus concurrently. Subsequently, only the father receives Parental Allowance Plus in months 10 to 15. This arrangement fully exhausts the parents’ claim to 14 months of Basic Parental Allowance.

Parental Allowance rates
If you receive Parental Allowance, the amount varies with your pre-birth income. In most cases, it is 65 percent of net income. Basic Parental Allowance varies between a minimum of 300 and a maximum of 1,800 euros per month. Amounts increase if you have another young child or multiple babies.
If you do not return to work after your child’s birth, Parental Allowance Plus amounts to half the Basic Parental Allowance. Amounts vary between 150 and 900 euros per month. On the other hand, you can receive Parental Allowance Plus for twice as long as Basic Parental Allowance.
You can use the Elterngeldrechner to get a rough idea of how much Parental Allowance you might receive.

Parental Allowance and part-time work
If you work part-time, you can additionally draw Parental Allowance.
You can work up to 32 hours per week while in receipt of Parental Allowance. If you work part-time after the birth, this affects the amount of Parental Allowance. This is because the Parental Allowance is calculated based on the difference between your income before and after the child’s birth. For parents who work part-time after their child’s birth, Parental Allowance Plus can be especially worthwhile.
For example: Your pre-birth income was 2,000 euros net per month. After the birth, you return to work on a part-time basis and earn 1,200 euros net per month. This makes a difference in income of 800 euros per month. This amount is the basis for calculating the amount of Parental Allowance. In our example, Parental Allowance amounts to 65 percent of the income difference of 800 euros, i.e. 520 euros per month.
In our example, the rate of Parental Allowance Plus is also 520 euros per month and so equals that of Basic Parental Allowance. However, it can be drawn for twice as long. So, if you opt for Parental Allowance Plus while working part time, you can receive as much as twice the amount you would choosing the Basic Parental Allowance.

Partnership Bonus
Using the Partnership Bonus, you get between 2 and 4 extra months of Parental Allowance Plus.
You can work up to 32 hours per week while in receipt of Parental Allowance. If you and your partner concurrently work part-time between 24 and 32 hours a week, you get the Partnership Bonus. The bonus comprises 2, 3 or 4 additional Parental Allowance Plus months per parent. You are eligible for the Partnership Bonus even if you are a single parent working part time.
You can combine Basic Parental Allowance, Parental Allowance Plus and the Partnership Bonus. For example: The mother gets Basic Parental Allowance during the first four months, starting on the date of the child's birth, the father receives it in months 5 and 6. Both parents receive Parental Allowance Plus in months 7 to 14 from the child’s date of birth. From months 15 to 18, they both work between 24 and 32 hours a week, taking advantage of the Partnership Bonus.

Apply for Parental Allowance
In many Federal Länder , you can apply for Parental Allowance online.
You can apply at a Parental Allowance Office called Elterngeldstelle . Please make sure this is the local Elterngeldstelle for your child’s place of residence. You can use this form to find your Elterngeldstelle .
In many Federal Länder , you can also apply for Parental Allowance online using the online service www.elterngeld-digital.de . The application assistant will take you through the application step by step, explain any technical terms and answer frequently asked questions.

further information
- Publication: Parental Allowance and Parental Leave
- Flyer: Parental Allowance in Germany - An Overview
