Title: Student Visa Germany
Source: https://www.make-it-in-germany.com/en/visa-residence/types/studying
Source: https://www.make-it-in-germany.com/en/study-vocational-training/studies-in-germany/requirements
Content:

Source section: www.make-it-in-germany.com
With its wide range of study programmes and low tuition fees, Germany attracts many international students every year. Find out how to apply for a student visa here.
Are you interested in studying in Germany? A German degree opens many doors. There is a wide range of international study programmes and the fees are low. With this in mind, you can obtain a visa for the purpose of studying in Germany. A residence permit under Section 16b of the Residence Act (AufenthG) (External link) is also valid for preparatory measures prior to enrolment in higher education, such as language courses, preparatory courses for university admission or similar institutions, or doctoral studies at a German university. To find out if you need a visa to enter Germany, please refer to the “ Do I need a visa? ” section.
- You have been admitted to a state-recognised higher education institution in Germany. To find out how to apply for a place on a study programme in Germany, see the “Studies in Germany” section.
- You are able to cover your living costs for the duration of your study programme. You can prove that you have sufficient funds through a blocked bank account ( at least €11,904 in 2026), a scholarship or a declaration of commitment .
- Some programmes require a certain level of language proficiency, usually level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) . You must prove your language skills to the German embassy or consulate.
Do you meet the above requirements? Then find out about how the entry and visa process works.
Residence permits for study purposes are usually issued for an initial period of two years. If you have not obtained your degree within this period, you can request to have your residence permit renewed for a further two years. During your time at university, you can work up to 140 full days or 280 half days per year, or up to 20 hours per week. You can take part-time student jobs for an unlimited period.
After successfully completing your degree, you can extend your stay in Germany by applying for a residence permit for jobseekers under Section 20 (1) No. 1 of the Residence Act (AufenthG) (External link) . The residence permit is issued for up to 18 months as a means of finding skilled employment in Germany. You can work in any occupation while looking for skilled employment. As soon as you have found a qualified employment position, you can apply to convert your residence permit for study purposes into a residence permit for skilled workers or an EU Blue Card . You can find out more about the opportunities available to you while you study in Germany and after you graduate in the “ Prospects after graduation ” section.
Graduates of German higher education institutions can apply for a settlement permit (Section 18c (1) sentence 2 of the Residence Act (External link) [AufenthG]) after working in Germany for more than two years.
Do you have a student visa from another EU country and would like to study in Germany for a while? If your stay in Germany does not exceed 360 days, you do not need a residence title for Germany. However, the host educational institution in Germany must inform the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) and the competent authority in the other EU Member State about your intended study period in Germany. There are a number of documents that need to be submitted to the authorities when they are notified of your plans to study abroad.
This guide provides orientation on the requirements and procedural steps involved in obtaining a visa to study in Germany.
Print
Have you decided to study in Germany but have not yet been admitted to a higher education institution? If you meet certain requirements, you may be entitled to enter Germany on a visa for seeking a place in higher education under Section 17 (2) of the Residence Act (AufenthG) (External link) . To find out if you need a visa to enter Germany, please refer to the “ Do I need a visa? ” section.
- You can prove that you have a school-leaving certificate that entitles you to study at a German higher education institution or attend a preparatory course for university admission.
- You meet the language requirements for your chosen study programme. Contact your local German embassy or consulate to find out which documents are required.
- You can cover your living costs for the entire duration of your stay. You can prove this by opening a blocked bank account with a minimum of €1,091 per month (as of 2026) or by submitting a declaration of commitment.
Here you find an of how to secure your livelihood according to the purpose of stay.
A visa or residence permit for the purpose of seeking a place in higher education allows you to stay in Germany for up to nine months. During this time, you can apply for a place at a university or for a preparatory measure prior to enrolment in higher education. Examples of preparatory measures include attending a language course or a preparatory course for university admission. A residence permit for seeking a place in higher education cannot be renewed for the same purpose.
During this time, you are permitted to work up to 20 hours a week. You also have the opportunity to complete up to two weeks of trial work. This means that you can earn some money during your stay for seeking a place in higher education.
Have you been admitted to a higher education institution in Germany or to a preparatory course for university admission? Then you can apply to your local foreigners authority (External link) for a residence permit for the purpose of studying under Section 16b of the Residence Act (AufenthG) (External link) .
This guide illustrates the key requirements and procedural steps for obtaining a visa to seek a place in university in Germany.
Do you meet the necessary requirements? Then you can apply for your visa for studying or for seeking a place in higher education online here: Consular Services Portal of the Federal Foreign Office (External link) .
- Federal Foreign Office (FFO) You can find out which visa you need in order to come to Germany with the Visa-Navigator.
- Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) Centre of Excellence for Asylum, Migration and Integration in Germany
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.
- E-Mail
- Hotline
- FAQ

Source section: www.make-it-in-germany.com
Would you like to study in Germany? In this category, you will learn more about the requirements to be able to study in Germany.
If you would like to study in Germany, you need a university entrance qualification . To find out whether the qualification of your country of origin is sufficient or whether you need to take additional examinations for admission, please refer to the DAAD database on admission requirements (External link) . With My GUIDE (External link) , you can verify if your qualification is sufficient for your desired study programme, and you can create your own list of study programmes.

No recognised school-leaving certificate? A preparatory course can help
Even if your qualification from your country of origin is not equivalent to the German university entrance qualification, you still have the opportunity to study in Germany by completing a preparatory course before your academic studies, if need be. In the preparatory course, you will receive language lessons and subject-specific lessons tailored to your desired study programme. The course usually takes one year to complete. If you pass the assessment test, you will receive a subject-specific university entrance qualification. You can find more information on the website of the preparatory courses (External link) in Germany.

German “Abitur”/DIAP
With the German general qualification for university entrance ("Abitur") or the German International Abitur (DIAP), you have direct access to German higher education institutions. Your school-leaving certificate is recognised as equivalent in Germany.
The International Baccalaureate Diploma (IB) and the Gemischtsprachiges International Baccalaureate Diploma (GIB) can qualify you for admission to a German university.
The IB is recognised as a university entrance qualification in Germany if the requirements of the Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs (External link) of the Länder in the Federal Republic of Germany (KMK) are met.
The GIB , due to its high proportion of German-language instruction, grants unrestricted access to higher education in Germany.
If you apply for a course of study taught in German, you must provide proof of being proficient in German. Common certificates are the German language exam for university entrance (DSH) and the TestDaF (examination for German as a foreign language). Since 12 February 2016, German universities also admit students to a course of study taught in German if they passed the “telc Deutsch C1 Hochschule” exam (test on the German knowledge needed for success at an advanced academic level), “Deutsches Sprachdiplom II” (German Language Certificate II), or the Goethe C2 certificate. Nevertheless, you should find out what language certificate meets the requirements of your desired course of study at your university.
Generally, there is no need to provide proof of German language skills for English-language study courses.
Regardless of what you are studying, it is recommended to be proficient in the German language (External link) , at least at level B2. This will help you in communicating effectively and independently, for example, when you are grocery shopping, at the foreigners authority or when visiting the doctor. It will also facilitate your social life and improve your career prospects if you would like to stay in Germany for the completion of your studies.
If you would like to take a German language proficiency test while still in your home country, you can do so at one of the 154 Goethe-Institut sites worldwide. You will find the address of your local Institut in our overview of advisory and contact points .
You can use the Study in Germany database (External link) to find a suitable course of study or the right university.
There are two ways to apply for a place at university: At many universities, you can apply via uni-assist e.V. The uni-assist website (External link) will tell you which universities are included. If your preferred university is not covered by uni-assist, you can submit your application directly to the respective university.
It is also possible to complete a dual study programme (duales Studium). This is a way for you to gain work experience in Germany and combine it with theoretical education at the same time. You will find more information on this subject at Study in Germany (External link) . If you come from a country outside the EU/EEA, you will also need to apply for a visa for studying .
The question of financing your studies in Germany is vital. If you come from a country outside the EU/ EEA and need a temporary residence title for the purpose of studying, you have to prove that you have the financial means to study and live in Germany.
To this end, you can set up a blocked account in Germany with a minimum amount of €11,904 (as of 2026). Alternatively, you can ask friends or relatives in Germany to hand in a Declaration of Commitment for you at the foreigners authority . Therefore, you might not have to submit proof of your own savings when applying for a visa . You can find more information on proof of financial means on the Study in Germany (External link) website.

Exploring opportunities for scholarships
Would you like to fund your studies by means of a scholarship? Numerous institutions in Germany provide financial support on a monthly basis to students who meet certain requirements (e.g. extraordinary grades or commitment to social responsibility). However, you need to be aware that scholarships in Germany are rarely awarded from the first semester onwards. Students in higher semesters and doctoral candidates from abroad can apply for the DAAD scholarship. Some private institutions also provide support for students from abroad. You can find out more about funding options from DAAD and other selected funding organisations for international students on the DAAD (External link) website.

Cost of living
How much money do you need on average in order to cover your everyday expenses while studying in Germany? You will find detailed information on the cost of living during your studies in Germany on the Study in Germany (External link) website.
Depending on your country of origin, you may need a visa to study in Germany.
You do not need an entry visa in order to study in Germany if you are a citizen of an EU country, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, or Switzerland. You may not need an entry visa either if you are from Australia, Andorra, Brazil, El Salvador, Honduras, Israel, Japan, Canada, Monaco, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, San Marino, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or the United States of America.
All other international students require a visa in order to enter Germany for the purpose of studying.
You can find out what criteria you must meet in order to be issued a visa by visiting the “ Visa for studying” section.
- Higher Education Compass Information portal on study and doctoral programmes
- Federal Foreign Office Information on the blocked account
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.
- E-Mail
- Hotline
- FAQ
