Title: Travel in Germany
Source: https://int.bahn.de/en/trains/local-transport
Source: https://int.bahn.de/en/offers/regional/deutschland-ticket
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/home.html
Content:

Source section: int.bahn.de
Discover Germany on regional and local trains.
IRE (Interregio-Express), RE (Regional-Express), RB (Regionalbahn) and S-Bahn

What travel on board regional and S-Bahn trains offers you
- A dense network of routes
- Departures at regular intervals
- Seamless connections to local and long-distance services
- Display and announcement of next stop
- Flexible travel without travel reservations

Interregio-Express (IRE)

Regional-Express (RE)

Regionalbahn (RB)

S-Bahn

Modern train equipment

Source section: int.bahn.de
Deutschland-Ticket
Travel conveniently throughout Germany with just one ticket. The Deutschland-Ticket (D-Ticket for short) lets you travel easily by all means of local public transport for just 63 euros per month.

The benefits
- Unlimited travel for 63 euros per month
- Valid throughout Germany on all local public transport (not valid in ICE, IC/EC)
- Subscription, possibility to cancel monthly

Frequently asked questions
The federal and state governments agreed to offer the Deutschland-Ticket as a subscription product. It is valid nationwide and enables journeys throughout Germany on local public transport and regional rail transport operated by all participating transport companies and transport associations, and across all regional fare systems, even areas not included in an association.
Overview The Deutschland-Ticket's fare regulations are standardised for the whole of Germany. The subscription ticket is person-specific and therefore non-transferable.
- Price: EUR 63 per month
- Contract period: Can be cancelled monthly. If a customer cancels the ticket by the 10th day of the month, the subscription ends on the last day of the same month. Cancellation after the 10th day means the subscription ends on the last day of the following month.
- Validity: Nationwide in Germany on local public transport (i.e. on all buses, trams, light rail, underground and S-Bahn trains) and on regional trains and regional express trains in 2nd class. The Deutschland-Ticket is not valid on long-distance transport, i.e. ICE, IC or EC trains.
The exact conditions of your Deutschland-Ticket can be found in the fare conditions of your respective network (transport association, regional fare system, Deutschlandtarif).
- To the Deutschlandtarif (in German)
The Deutschland-Ticket can be used throughout Germany on all local trains such as RB, RE, S-Bahn trains (SPNV) and also on public transport such as buses, trams, subways , etc. (ÖPNV) of the participating state tariffs, transit authorities and transport companies in accordance with the area of validity and their conditions for any number of journeys. This applies regardless of which transport company, transit authority or national tariff is noted on the ticket itself. A Deutschland-Ticket purchased in Munich, for example, can therefore also be used for journeys in Frankfurt and the surrounding area.
Please note, however, that the Deutschland-Ticket is generally not valid on trains operated by DB Fernverkehr AG or other long-distance providers such as FlixTrain (e.g. IC, EC, ICE, but also RE of DB Fernverkehr AG). DB Fernverkehr is currently in talks with the federal states and local transport authorities about exceptions on certain sections of the route. The Deutschland-Ticket can be used before and after a long distance train. However, a separate ticket is then always required for the long-distance route. This has an impact on any passenger rights. If you miss the connecting long distance train, the train connection is not canceled and no refund claims can be made.
Furthermore, the Deutschland-Ticket is not valid on means of transport that are operated primarily for tourist or historical purposes.
- Scope of application (in German) (PDF, 207 KB)
You can cancel your Deutschland-Ticket subscription by the 10th of each month to the end of the calendar month. The best way to do this is to use our Aboportal (subscription portal) or the "Cancel subscription" function in the DB Navigator below your mobile phone ticket.
- Aboportal (subscription portal)
The Deutschland-Ticket can be used before and after a journey on a long-distance train . However, a separate ticket is always required for the long-distance journey. This may have implications for passenger rights. If you miss the long-distance train you have booked following your journey on a local/regional service, you are not entitled to travel on another train with the same ticket and cannot claim a refund.
- Passenger rights
Unfortunately not. However, you can cancel your subscription yourself at any time in the "Aboportal" or in your mobile phone ticket. Alternatively, you can use our cancellation form to cancel at the earliest possible date. Please note the standard notice period. A Deutschland-Ticket subscription can be cancelled up to the 10th calendar day of a month with effect from the end of that month.
- To the "Aboportal" (in German)
If your mobile phone ticket is no longer displayed, you can add the travelcard again at any time under "Travel" using the travelcard number from your activation email.
Please note: If you order a new travelcard, you will incur additional costs for the new travelcard contract.
The Deutschland-Ticket is a ticket-offer to use public transport across Germany.
- Booking information about the Deutschland-Ticket
- All FAQs about the Deutschland-Ticket

Source section: www.germany.travel
Read our latest articles here

Hello, I'm Emma, an AI travel companion!

7 blossoming destinations: the most beautiful colors of spring

12 seasonal classics: a year of delights in Germany

11 light festivals in Germany: events that shine bright

9 colorful weekly markets: a treat for the eyes and the palate

Moselle valley: castles, wine and charming little towns

10 bridge gems: engineering, history, adventure

Making tracks: 12 must-see city destinations

Outstanding museums with the highest praise

In the footsteps of Martin Luther: hands-on Reformation

Capitals of Culture: a grand entrance on the European stage

Hotspots of automobile history

Baroque Cities: Travel back in time to the 17th and 18th centuries

University Cities: Youthful Vibes and Colorful Atmosphere

Football hotspots: cities with an extra kick

A 48-hour trip is full of possibilities

Action and adrenalin: tours for adventurers

Experience nature and national parks as completely accessible

Teuto-Ems border crossers route – cycling along smugglers' trails

Along the magic of peaceful lakes and wild river landscapes!

Romantic or Fairytale: German Holiday Routes

The World of German Animals: More than Fox and Deer

Top spots for astronomy fans: starry skies

Castles and Palaces: Fairytale Film Settings

16 highlights in Germany

From medieval banquets to the Song of the Nibelungs

A journey back in time to the Baroque era

Top tips for special holiday experiences

Where world history was written

Dine and sleep in regal style

This is the taste of Germany!

7 breathtaking records on steep tracks

Germany has a (wine) queen!

Spa and healing forests: bathing in nature

Craft beer: hop heroes everywhere!

An A to Z of health and wellness

Health spas and health resorts - a little time out

Wine Hikes: 5 Regions for Connoisseurs

Current highlights

2026 Richard Wagner

Culinary Germany

Simply FEEL GOOD

50 years Germany Fairytale Route

Journey of discovery by train

Traveling by train in Germany

Barrier-free

Experience Germany barrier-free

All four seasons enchant in their own way
Follow us on Instagram
@germanytourism

Discover Germany
