Title: Weather in Germany
Source: https://www.germany.travel/en/travelling-to-germany.html
Source: https://www.dwd.de/EN/climate_environment/climateenvironment_node.html
Content:

Limited coverage note: This document covers general weather and climate basics only. Live weather requires a current weather service or API.

Source section: www.germany.travel
Information on Germany: a brief overview of the essentials
You will find everything you ever wanted to know about Germany in our summary of key facts and figures.

Geographic/demographic
How many federal states does Germany have?
The Federal Republic of Germany has been a parliamentary democracy since 1949. Since reunification in 1990, Germany has the following 16 federal states.
What are the names of the 16 federal states?
Baden-Württemberg Bavaria Berlin Brandenburg Bremen Hamburg Hesse Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Lower Saxony North Rhine-Westphalia Rhineland-Palatinate Saarland Saxony-Anhalt Saxony Schleswig-Holstein Thuringia
- Baden-Württemberg
- Bavaria
- Berlin
- Brandenburg
- Bremen
- Hamburg
- Hesse
- Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
- Lower Saxony
- North Rhine-Westphalia
- Rhineland-Palatinate
- Saarland
- Saxony-Anhalt
- Saxony
- Schleswig-Holstein
- Thuringia
The head of state is the Federal President; the head of government is the Federal Chancellor.
How big is Germany?
Germany covers an area of 357,022 square metres. As the crow flies, the longest stretch from north to south is 876 kilometres and from west to east is 640 kilometres.
Germany's biggest city is also its capital: Berlin, with a population of 3.4 million. There are two other cities with more than a million residents: Hamburg (1.8 million) and Munich (1.3 million); Cologne falls slightly short of this milestone. Frankfurt am Main (662,000) is an international financial hub.
Germany boasts a variety of rural landscapes. The North Sea and Baltic Sea coasts stretch out in the north, while the Alps soar in the south. There is a medley of rural landscapes between these points: agricultural plains; winding rivers and huge lakes; sprawling forests; urban hubs and gently rolling uplands. Germany's tallest mountain is the Zugspitze at 2,963 metres. The longest river is the Rhine, which carves its way through 865 kilometres of German soil. Germany also has 16 national parks, 104 nature parks and 18 biosphere reserves, including 16 UNESCO biosphere reserves.
How many people live in Germany?
With 83 million people, Germany is the most populous state lying entirely in Europe. In relation to the land area, this is a population density of 230 people per square kilometre.
The official language is German. There are many dialects and vernaculars that reveal where a person comes from. Standard German is understood throughout the country.
A large proportion of the population also speaks English, so language barriers shouldn't pose a problem for many international visitors.

Touristic/Cultural
Life in Germany is influenced by a variety of cultures. It is modern and open-minded. There is always an excuse to socialise, with numerous traditional events – such as Carnival, wine festivals, Oktoberfest and music festivals ranging from classical to rock – and good food paired with wines from the country's 13 wine-growing regions.
Germany is home to great poets and famous musicians. Names such as Goethe and Günter Grass, Bach and Beethoven are a testament to the country's long history of world-class culture. Nowadays, Germany is a vibrant mosaic of ancient cultures and modern art: the nation boasts 300 theatres, 130 professional orchestras and 630 art museums with internationally renowned collections. Literature and film are two industries where German artists channel their creativity year after year.
Science and important educational facilities and research institutes are also a core part of Germany today. The 370 or so higher education institutions have even established an excellent reputation among international students.
What is the weather like in Germany?
Germany generally has a temperate climate with moderate rainfall and predominately westerly winds. Major temperature fluctuations are rare. Rain falls throughout the year. Mild winters (2 °C to –6 °C) and warm summers (18 °C to 20 °C) are the norm.

Facts
When entering Germany, does my passport need to be valid beyond my period of stay?
When entering Germany, your passport must be valid for at least four months beyond your period of stay. Unless you are a citizen of an EU member state, in which case a valid identity card is all that is required.
Who needs a visa for Germany?
Citizens of EU member states do not require a visa. As a basic rule, citizens of all other nations will require a visa. The exception being a few countries for which the European Union has waived the visa requirement. Citizens of these nations do not need a visa for stays in Germany of up to three months within a period of six months.
Goods from EU countries are duty free as long as you carry the goods with you, and they are intended for personal consumption.
Goods imported to Germany from non-EU countries are duty free up to a value of EUR 175. There are, however, certain restrictions on goods such as tobacco, alcohol and perfume.
Which vaccinations are compulsory for entry into Germany?
There are no compulsory vaccinations for entry into Germany.
From spring to autumn, however, there is an increased risk of catching Lyme disease and tick-borne encephalitis (TBE), both of which are transmitted through tick bites. Ticks mainly live low to the ground in areas of dense vegetation. So the best protection against them is clothing that covers as much of the body as possible. If bitten, you should see a doctor as a precaution.
The main at-risk areas are Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria, as well as certain regions of Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate and Thuringia. We recommend a TBE vaccine for anyone who spends a lot of time in the countryside.
What does SOS mean?
Across Europe, you can call the standard emergency number 112 at any time to request assistance from the fire brigade and emergency services. Calls are free from all networks, even from a mobile phone.
The SOS distress signal originated in German government maritime radio regulations and stands for Morse code. It's not an abbreviation: it represents the Morse code 'three short/three long/three short'.
What does the German flag look like?
The German flag is represented by the colours black, red and gold in a horizontal tricolour.
How many articles are in the Basic Law?
The Basic Law is the constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany. It consists of a total of 202 articles.
When did the Basic Law come into force?
The Basic Law came into force at midnight on 24 May 1949 and was signed and promulgated the day before.
The Bundesadler (Federal Eagle) graces the coat of arms of Germany. It is depicted looking to the right and designed in black and red on a golden-yellow background. The national emblem therefore features the colours of the German flag.
Who wrote the German national anthem?
The German national anthem was written by August Heinrich Hoffmann von Fallersleben and composed by Joseph Haydn. The third stanza of the Deutschlandlied was agreed as the national anthem by Chancellor Kohl and President Weizsäcker in August 1991.
When is the Day of German Unity?
Every year, 3 October is a national holiday in Germany to celebrate the Day of German Unity. This date was chosen to mark the reunification of all German federal states on 3 October 1990.

Institutions
Its representatives can be described as Germany's 'eyes, ears and voice' abroad. They represent Germany, safeguard its interests and protect its citizens in host countries based on guidance from the German Federal Foreign Office. They negotiate with the respective foreign government and promote political relations as well as economic, cultural and scientific collaboration.
The embassies play a part in all aspects of international relations to promote bilateral – especially political – relations and German economic interests, to look after German nationals and to collaborate internationally on research and technology as well as social, agricultural and development policy.
Unlike embassies, which are responsible for one or more countries, Consulate Generals and Consulates have a regional administrative district. Their range of duties encompasses mainly legal and consular matters, export business assistance, cultural collaboration and PR work. However, political relations fall under the embassies' remit.
www.auswaertiges-amt.de

Source section: www.dwd.de
Climate & Environment
As part of its Climate & Environment activities, the Deutscher Wetterdienst carries out a comprehensive diagnosis of the climate system. In times of global climate change, climate monitoring, the documentation of its results and the prediction of the impacts of climate change have become essential to the general understanding of the climate. The findings of this work form the basis for political and business decision-making, contribute to improving preparedness for weather-related disasters and help to provide sustainable support for disaster control.
With regard to the tangible impacts of climate change, the DWD provides expert opinions and assessments relating to projects notably in the field of traffic and urban development, water management, agriculture, the health sector and technical climatology.

Highlights

Climate Predictions
Now responding to climate change with evidence-based solutions: Climate predictions for the next ten years enable to adapt to climate change.

Climate Data Center – CDC
... provides free access to an FTP server with a wide range of DWD climate data. This multitude of data can be accessed through various different channels and from a data catalogue. More climate data are available from "Our Services" in the main navigation menu.

DWD climate and environment services

DWD’s Climate Services
Observing – Modelling – Consulting
- Reports about special meteorological events
- Global Precipitation Climatology Centre (GPCC)
- German Climate Atlas
- Drought index
- Global Climate Data - monthly - values

Understanding climate & environment - with the DWD

Understanding climate change
Background factors, facts, figures and latest news on how our climate works and how we are changing it, what the consequences might be and how we are responding …

The German Climate Atlas
Compare our climate online yesterday - today - tomorrow. More than 200 years of climate history at a glance - for several sectors, many parameters and now also for Germany's federal states.

European Centre on Climate Monitoring
The Regional Climate Centre (RCC-CM) for the monitoring of the climate in Europe and the Middle East is hosted by the DWD on behalf of the World Meteorological Organisation.

GFCS - Global Framework for Climate Services
The DWD makes an important contribution to the implementation of the global framework for climate services in Germany …

The German Climate Portal
Promoting networking between suppliers and users of climate services is the key concern of the numerous partners who participate in the German Climate Portal.

Contact information

Special topics for
- Research & Education
Climate change - Don't cold winters and cool summers contradict expectations for climate change?
The weather in any particular month can never be taken as evidence on its own for climate change. Climate trends can only ever be demonstrated over a longer periods of time, usually 30 years. At the same time, these trends also consist of many different weather anomalies. The extremely warm April 2009 in Germany fitted in very well, for example, with the previously observed and still anticipated warming trend. This is a strong indicator of this trend.Bearing in mind the large variations in weather from year to year in our climate, colder periods will continue to occur in the future despite the warming trend.
Climate change - At what point is it possible to say that the deviation of a monthly mean from the long-term 1961–1990 series is "abnormal" or that the value for a particular month deviates to an "abnormally" large extent from the mean? Is a subdivision made at some point?
There is no common definition of abnormal deviations. A definition based on the frequency distribution of the values makes most sense. In many cases, the months in which the parameters fall outside the frequency distribution in 80 or 90% of cases are referred to as unusual.In many cases the media tend to use a subjective mix of varying criteria and a value is then often referred to as unusual simply if it has not occurred for several years.
Climate change - How is the global mean temperature calculated?
A global mean temperature is calculated from the data recorded at meteorological stations which are distributed unevenly across the world. There is today a very closely woven network of meteorological stations across Europe and the densely populated parts of Asia and North America. The network is much thinner on the other continents but, at least in theory (if all the existing stations actually deliver information), nonetheless adequate. There are still large areas over the world's seas for which very little data is available; these gaps can only be partially closed with data derived from ship observations.This means that it is not possible to arrive at a global mean temperature by simply averaging all the available data from meteorological stations. Instead, different areas of influence are assigned, depending on the existing neighbouring stations – and an average is then calculated using applicable weightings.In the past, the number and, in some cases, the position of stations have changed. This means that the areas of influence need to be modified on an ongoing basis. This gives rise to different procedures which produce slightly different results. The best known are the time series produced by the Climate Research Unit at the University of East Anglia 1 (England) and the NOAA's National Climate Data Center (NCDC 2,3 ) in the USA. More detailed information about the calculation methods used can be found at the stated internet addresses.Mean values are less precise if there are only a few stations in a certain area. Luckily, the anomalies from the mean temperature are relatively uniform over large areas, which enables useful values to be determined with relatively little data. This means that time series for global anomalies in temperature from the mean values for the international climatological reference period 1961–1990 could be compiled going right back to the 19th century. 1 http://www.cru.uea.ac.uk/ 2 http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/cag/time-series/global/globe/land_ocean/ytd/12/1880-2020 3 http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/monitoring-references/faq/
Climate change - The long-term mean is for the period 1961–1990. Why has this period in particular been selected?
The period 1961–1990 is the reference time frame for climate normals defined by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). It is used to provide a uniform data basis for studies of climate developments. 30-year periods have proven useful for climatological studies because they guarantee that statistical parameters such as means and variances can be calculated relatively reliably while, at the same time, ensuring that sufficiently comprehensive records are available.To date, the WMO has always defined consecutive reference time frames. The current 1961–1990 time frame followed on seamlessly from the earlier 1931–1960 period and will probably only be replaced after the year 2020 by the 1991–2020 time frame. It is always possible, of course, to use more specific periods to study particular phenomena. A good example is the frequently used time span 1971-2000.
Climate change - For what area in Germany is the mean air temperature for years starting in 1901?
The evaluation of mean air temperature for Germany shown relates to the period beginning in 1901 and, as such, cover more than three periods of climate normals. The geographical area is the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany within its 1990 borders. The stated value of +0.9°C for the change in mean air temperature in Germany during the period stated above has been taken from the linear trend.
